# tint-ui

The main package for generating and installing dependencies for the tint-ui library. It is intended for development use and is recommended for developers working with tint-ui.

`tint-ui` uses Tailwind CSS for styling and Radix UI for some interactive components.

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save-dev tint-ui
```

## Usage

tint-ui provides three basic commands:

- **init**: Initializes the tint-ui setup in your project, generating necessary configuration files and installing dependencies.
- **add**: Adds a new component or feature to your project.
- **create**: Creates a new project or component structure based on templates.

## Commands

### init

```bash
npx tint-ui init
```

This command sets up the tint-ui environment, including theme configuration, component registration, and necessary dependencies.

### add

```bash
npx tint-ui add
```

Displays a list of built-in components for selection. Selected components install necessary dependencies and links in the theme component.

### create

```bash
npx tint-ui create <component-name>
```

Creates a new component structure based on predefined templates.

## Main configuration file

File: `components.json`

This file is automatically generated with the `tint-ui init` command. However, if initialization fails or you need to configure everything manually, you can create the file yourself. You will also need to configure `tsconfig.json` for component references like `@/components` or another alias, and set up basic configurations in the Tailwind config and `global.css`.

```json
{
	"mode": "sass",
	"ts": true,
	"tailwind": {
		"config": "tailwind.config.ts",
		"css": "app/globals.css",
		"baseColor": "blue",
		"cssVariables": true,
		"prefix": ""
	},
	"path": {
		"app": "app/layout.tsx"
	},
	"aliases": {
		"components": "@/components"
	}
}
```

## Manual Integration

Although the `ThemeContextProvider` component in `@/components/theme` is generated automatically, you need to manually integrate it into your application's App or Layout.

### Integration Example

For Next.js applications, add the provider to your root layout:

```tsx
import type { Metadata } from "next";
import type { ReactNode } from "react";
import { ThemeContextProvider } from "@/components/theme";
import { getGlobalState } from "@/lib/some-function";
import "./globals.css";

export const metadata: Metadata = {
	title: "Next App",
};

export default async function Layout({ children }: Readonly<{ children: ReactNode }>) {
	const state = await getGlobalState();
	const options = {
		state,
		language: "en",
		lexicon: {},
	};
	return (
		<html>
			<body>
				<ThemeContextProvider options={options}>{children}</ThemeContextProvider>
			</body>
		</html>
	);
}
```

## Note

While tint-ui is not mandatory after initial setup, it is recommended for development to ensure consistency and ease of use.

## License

MIT
